***Computer Science/Introduction to Programming***

Mrs. Reiman

***Primary Tools***

-   Windows PC

-   Windows Command Console

-   Notepad++ Text Editor

-   Chrome with Developer Tools

***Online Resources***

-   Code.org

-   MonsterCoding.com

-   Github.com

-   Khan Academy

-   Trinket.io

***Handouts*** I will also give out short handouts in class when
appropriate. These will be for students to better comprehend a given
topic rather than as homework.

***Overview*** This class aims to provide a basic introduction to
programming concepts through exploring basic ideas like functions,
variables, iteration, runtime, conditionals, and more. We will focus on
in class activities as our learning method, with a lesser emphasis on
videos and short lectures.

***Student Expectations***

-   **Imagination:** Students are expected to use their creativity and
    view coding as both science and art.

-   **Positive Attitude:** If you can *think it*, you can probably *code
    it*.Students will be expected to bring enthusiasm, problem solving,
    and a sense of adventure to class with them.

-   **Comment your Code**: In order to understand why you did things a
    certain way, and help other work with your code, I highly encourage
    students to comment as they work. We will go over how to do this
    in class.

***Rules for the Class***

-   This is a class, not free time. Talking to other students should
    only be when necessary, and related to the activity at hand

-   Respectful language and attitudes are to be used at all times

-   Keep our workstation immaculate, and follow exact procedures for
    placing the keyboard, mouse and chair in their place before you
    leave

***Lesson Plan for First 4 Weeks***

***Week 1 Topic: *Variables****

In our first class, I will first take an informal survey of existing
programming skill sets. As I expect there will be some variation from
one student to another, there will be room within each activity for more
advanced students to do a little more with each concept. Students will
set up their development environments, and begin coding by using Dos
Batch to experiment with variable *setting* and *getting*.

***Week 2 Topic: *Functions****

Today we will view a video from Code.org about the benefits of learning
to program. We will discuss what functions are, and begin using function
blocks by doing some short lessons on Code.org and MonsterCoding.com.
Then we'll move over to Trinket.io where the students can create their
own functions using either Python or Javascript.

***Week 3 Topic*: Arrays****

We will begin our discussion about Arrays by using an 'unplugged' style
activity, looking at the arrays around us in everyday life. We'll begin
experimenting with arrays by completing an online lesson at
MonsterCoding.com , and then open up our Notepad++ editor to begin
writing Dos Batch scripts that perform simple actions on an array of
files and folders.

***Week 4 Topic: *Iteration and Algorithms****

Today we'll view a quick video where Bill Gates discusses the value of
loops and iteration. After a short discussion about iteration, students
will build on their knowledge of variables, functions, and arrays by
writing functions that loop over arrays to perform actions, such as
taking sample music and video files to create a playlist. We will
briefly discuss algorithms: the definition, and why better algorithms
result in better code.

**Coding Challenges:** Each week I will quickly present a coding dilemma
from one of my apps on the screen, and see if the students have any
potential approaches for solving it.

I**ndividual Projects/Extra Credit:** Students are highly encouraged to
begin their own small coding projects, and to explore code in subjects
they are interested in on Github.com. I will a lot 10 to 15 minutes
after each class to discuss individual projects with students.
